Pipelines section 1 : Changes to Pipelines/Concepts and Pipelines/Architecture files (#2307)
gruntwork-io/docs: docs/2.0/docs/pipelines/architecture/index.md

# Architecture

Gruntwork Pipelines is designed to provide flexibility, enabling you to utilize the components you need to manage your infrastructure in a way that aligns with your organization's requirements.

Understanding the components and their structure will help you use Pipelines and associated Infrastructure as Code (IaC) effectively.

## `infrastructure-live-root`

> The `infrastructure-live-root` repository serves as the root of your infrastructure and is provisioned using the [infrastructure-live-root-template](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/infrastructure-live-root-template).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `infrastructure-live-root` repository serves as the root of your infrastructure and is provisioned using the [infrastructure-live-root-template](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/infrastructure-live-root-template) template repository.
```

### Workflows

- **Account Factory:** Provides an API for interacting with the Gruntwork Account Factory. It uses a [repository dispatch](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-when-your-workflow-runs/events-that-trigger-workflows#repository_dispatch) to create AWS account requests.

  The workflow payload is a JSON object, which can be constructed using the sample HTML file included in the repository. This file can be customized for organizational needs, such as adding tagging fields or additional context.

- **Pipelines:** Manages infrastructure changes in a GitOps fashion. While the workflow permissions are mostly read-only for proposing changes, they include write access to apply infrastructure changes upon merging.

:::tip

The `infrastructure-live-root` repository can be renamed during the bootstrap process, but naming it similarly to `infrastructure-live-root` is recommended for clarity when using Gruntwork documentation. Multiple root repositories can be created if needed, but this increases complexity and operational overhead.

:::

## `infrastructure-live-access-control`

> The `infrastructure-live-access-control` repository manages access control for your infrastructure and is provisioned during the bootstrap process in the `infrastructure-live-root` repository. While necessary for Enterprise customers, it is recommended for all users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `infrastructure-live-access-control` repository manages access control for your infrastructure and is provisioned during the bootstrap process in the `infrastructure-live-root` repository. While only necessary for Enterprise customers, it is recommended for all users.
```

This repository handles IAM roles, policies, and permissions for delegated infrastructure management. It allows application engineers to propose access control changes, while a central platform team reviews and approves them.

### Workflows

> - **Pipelines:** Manages access control infrastructure in response to changes in the repository. The workflow is mostly read-only when proposing changes but can apply approved changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Pipelines:** Provisions access control infrastructure in response to changes in the repository.
```

:::info

Delegated infrastructure management allows developers to manage infrastructure in a self-service fashion, balancing control and agility. Core infrastructure is typically managed centrally, while application-specific infrastructure is delegated to developers.

:::

## `infrastructure-catalog`

> The `infrastructure-catalog` repository stores OpenTofu/Terraform modules created for internal use. It is provisioned during the bootstrap process in the `infrastructure-live-root` repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `infrastructure-catalog` repository stores OpenTofu/Terraform modules created for internal use. It is optionally provisioned during the bootstrap process of the `infrastructure-live-root` repository.
```

This repository is optional but recommended for managing reusable infrastructure code. Customers often combine Gruntwork modules with custom modules stored here to extend functionality.

### Workflows

- **Tests:** Validates module functionality by provisioning them in real environments, running [Terratests](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest), and tearing them down. This workflow ensures modules work as expected.

:::tip

> While `infrastructure-catalog` can be renamed, keeping a consistent name is recommended for clarity in documentation. Multiple module repositories can be created if necessary, but consider the trade-offs between centralized and decentralized approaches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While `infrastructure-catalog` can be renamed, keeping a consistent name is recommended for clarity in documentation. Multiple module repositories can be created if necessary, but consider the trade-offs between centralized and decentralized approaches.

It can be advantageous to have one repository for all modules to make it easier to find and share modules across your organization. However, it can also be advantageous to have multiple repositories if you have different teams that need to manage their own modules, or want to have different modules available to different teams within your organization.
```

Reviewer: We should tell readers what these trade-offs are.
